Al: Hello, farmers, and welcome to another episode of the Harvest Season.
Al: My name is Al.
Codey: And my name is Cody.
Al: And we're here today to talk about cottage score games.
Al: A woo.
Codey: Ow, ow, ow.
Codey: And we have a special, we're doing something special today that we don't normally do.
Codey: Um,
Codey: We so I normally have a headset, but my headset's been on the fritz, and I'm not entirely sure what Al's excuse is, but we are recording while holding microphones.
Codey: So instead of
Al: My excuse is that I am not at home and I took everything I needed to record except the little, I can't remember what it's called, is like a cage, I think it's called, that my mic goes into that goes on top of the stand.
Al: And so because I don't have that, I cannot use my stand.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: So I'm holding my mic instead.
Codey: Uh, and hilariously, I was going to use my mic, but I, my fancy mic, but I can't find the piece that allows me to affix the entire apparatus to my, to my, um, desk uh, and secure it so that it can be in one place.
Codey: So, yeah, where it's, it's all kinds of fun today.
Al: So if there's something weird with the audio, that's why, but I honestly don't know how holding the mic is going to change the audio.
Codey: I...
Al: I guess we will find out.
Codey: I mean, it just depends on how good we are at being consistent, I guess.
Al: All right, this episode, we're going to talk about Game Pass, because I have had Game Pass for the last few months, and Cody has had Game Pass for quite a while, and I thought it might be useful to chat about our experience with that and how good it is for cottage core games.
Al: So we're going to do we're going to do that.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Before that, oh.
Codey: Yeah, there's, yeah, they, it frequently has games on it, uh, cottage tour games on it, and I mean, they come in and out.
Al: It frequently has games.
Codey: Uh, but there are some.
Al: Game Pass frequently has games.
Codey: Well, so there are some.
Codey: Cottage core games out, like the games that we are supposed to be talking about.
Codey: Uh, but there are some games that are pretty consistently on Game Pass.
Codey: Uh, and so you don't have to worry about dumping a bunch of time into them and then them getting lost.
Codey: Um, so, yeah, uh, it'll be cool to talk about.
Al: Always a risk with subscription services, but yeah.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: All right, so we're gonna talk about that.
Al: Before that, we have some news.
Al: again, not a lot of news this week.
Al: It's like nothing's happening in the gaming world, which sure, fine.
Al: I'm okay with having a shorter episode.
Codey: Mhm. Mm-hmm.
Al: But before that, Cody, what have you been up to?
Codey: Well, uh, just in case you didn't want a shorter episode, a lot has been happening in my life.
Codey: Um, and just the.
Al: Yeah, you don't have to talk about that if you don't want to.
Codey: Oh, no, it's fine.
Codey: And just the last like 2 weeks, I have, uh, started moving to New Jersey, had abdominal surgery, um, recovering from that, that was a week, about a week ago, exactly.
Codey: Um, and then submitted my dissertation yesterday.
Codey: So a lot of big things that have happened.
Codey: Recovery's going great.
Codey: Uh, so no issues there.
Codey: And it was kind of nice to just like not be able to move anywhere because I then just sat and had to work on my dissertation.
Codey: Um, but also,
Al: Sometimes to actually do your work, you need to just get hospitalised.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: But, uh, also on top of all of that, I, like on top of sitting and doing my dissertation, I got very, like, my brain wouldn't have the writing capability, like, the cognitive capabilities would not be there, but the desire to do was still there.
Codey: So I think I started like 5 different games in the last probably week.
Codey: Um, I downloaded supermarket chaos, which is basically the arcane library game, but it's a supermarket and where there's like 4000 items that are just strewn all over the place and you have to reorganise them again.
Codey: I beat the main map and then literally that day as I beat it.
Codey: They released a new map.
Codey: So I beat that yesterday.
Codey: Um, I downloaded a game on my Mac called Cosy Cleaner, where you are a cat who is providing, you might not be a cat, but you are helping cats who have made a giant mess of their houses to clean their houses.
Al: Oh.
Codey: Um, it's really cute.
Codey: Uh, you basically just like are mopping and and putting all the trash away and stuff and you have to like click and drag.
Codey: I turned it off the click and drugs.
Codey: I hate click and drag.
Codey: Just let me click it and then click where I needed to put it.
Codey: Um, so that's really cute.
Codey: And then I also started playing TCG card shop simulator.
Al: Ah.
Codey: Um, so that's actually on Game Pass.
Al: I have not played that, but I have I have seen of it.
Codey: Yeah, the game preview, it's still in preview mode or early access or whatever, but it's, it is on Game Pass.
Codey: So I started playing that.
Codey: Um, which I am enjoying a lot.
Codey: It is really funny.
Codey: They've captured a lot of the silliness that can happen where sometimes people come up and they're like, I have this $400 card.
Codey: Would you buy it for $350?
Codey: And I'm like, correct, but could you do 325?
Codey: And then there are people that are like, I have this $5 card.
Al: Hmm.
Codey: I will sell it to you for $10.
Codey: And then if you say like $9.50, they're like, mm, I'm not budging.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Like, sorry.
Al: Hmm.
Codey: I'm not budging and they will be really snooty about it.
Codey: really funny.
Codey: So, and also on your off time when you're bored.
Codey: in the shop or waiting for customers, you can literally just open any of the packs and you get like an album that right now it's only one game, but the developers are going to be adding another game as they continue developing the game.
Codey: Like one TCG.
Codey: Um, so you just open packs and you get all of these cards and then I list all of the duplicates.
Codey: I put all the duplicates up for sale, but like I did sell like a $1,500 card, which is nuts.
Codey: Um, But the big game that has been taking my my time in the last, like, couple days is Cat Mail Company, or Cat Mail Co, uh, on steam where you are a cat who runs a post office, and Have you not?
Al: What?
Al: I did not protect that at all.
Codey: Oh, yeah.
Codey: So you basically like the old post office guy named Charlie like just retired and you're taking over for him.
Codey: And it's really cute because as you're playing the game and as you're progressing, like you'll find photos of this guy and with like some of the customers or with the guy that drives the boat or like it's just clear that he was well loved by this community.
Codey: Um, yeah, so cats come to you and they're like, hey, can you ship this for me? Or, hey, I have something that came in and can you go get it?
Codey: It's a cube shaped box?
Codey: And my last name is starts with an L or whatever.
Codey: Um, and they end up adding some restrictions and stuff like this needs to be cold or this needs to be kept in a dark room.
Codey: Um, and then there's so many different places to send things.
Codey: So I have like 5 different places I can ship things to right now.
Codey: And so when you get something, you have to like scan it, figure out if it has any, if it's fragile or if it's got any of these restrictions or anything.
Codey: And then you put a stamp for the location it's meant to go to, and then you weigh it and put a certain amount of stamps for how how much it weighs.
Codey: Um, and if you mess up any of those stamps, the, when you put it on the boat to ship out, uh, the guy will bring it back the next day and be like, this wasn't right.
Codey: But, yeah.
Al: Fair enough.
Al: I've realised.
Al: It's not really cottage core that brings this podcast together.
Al: It's jobs.
Al: It's job games.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: That's all these games are.
Codey: Well, so it's funny because these.
Al: These are all just jobs.
Codey: So Jeff was saying that my husband, he when I was playing, when I started playing TCG cards option later, he's like, babe, why don't you just get a job at a card shop?
Codey: Like, why are you doing this?
Codey: And I'm like, this is different.
Codey: Because I don't have to physically go anywhere.
Al: Yeah, it is different.
Codey: Um, and I don't have to actually deal with the people because that kind that kind of issue is why I didn't like retail, is either the customers or sometimes the people that you worked with.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um,
Al: Yep.
Al: It's, it's, it's games that are a nice idea of what jobs could theoretically be.
Al: Because none of these are realistic, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like that's the point.
Al: Stardew is not realistic.
Codey: I. Yeah.
Al: These games are not realistic, but it's about an idealistic view.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: of what they could.
Codey: I, I do think that Cat Mail Co, some of the people who are relieving reviews seem to not understand what the game is because they're like, this is just repetitive.
Codey: And like, this is a storage nightmare.
Al: Running a mail shop.
Codey: Yeah, they're like, storage nightmare.
Codey: And I'm like, what did you expect you were gonna do?
Codey: Like, did you expect you were going to go off and have adventures or anything like that?
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Like, it is a loop, yes.
Codey: And sometimes, yeah.
Al: Also, I, I, I also think that like most games are repetitive.
Al: That's kind of games as things.
Codey: Yeah, and it's a puzzle too, because when you when you put packages onto the boat, you have a limited amount of space and how much space is on the boat.
Codey: Like, he, like, there's already stuff on the boat.
Codey: And so there's like weird shapes that you have to then fit all of your packages into and people are always complaining about it.
Codey: And like, I don't think you're understanding that this is a puzzle that you're supposed to solve.
Codey: Like that, you guys are complaining about it, like it should just be completely open and easy.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Or like, sometimes a kid comes up and is like, my mom's name is little tail and her package should have been kept cold and it has a clover sticker on it. And people are like, what the hell am I supposed to do with this information?
Codey: And I'm like, use it.
Codey: And go find something that matches that description.
Codey: Or sometimes they might not even give a name.
Codey: And I'm like, okay, but you still can go into cold storage and look for something that was supposed to come here that has a clover sticker on it. Like, I don't know.
Codey: I was getting a little, uh, a little frilled last night when I was looking at the, uh, at the comments online.
Al: Yeah, that was your mistake, Cody, was looking at the comment.
Codey: I shouldn't have, yeah.
Codey: Well, I did learn there was something, uh, that they could have probably explained a little bit better because I didn't really understand one of the mechanics and that was.
Codey: in the comments.
Codey: People were like, oh, this is how this mechanic works.
Codey: And I was like, oh, that makes sense.
Codey: But that is what I've been up to.
Al: Fair enough.
Codey: I've been talking a lot.
Al: Cool.
Al: I have been playing Moonlight Peaks, so that came out this week and I have been playing that.
Al: I don't want to talk about it too much for reasons, secret reasons that nobody could possibly guess.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Uh, but I guess so far I am enjoying it.
Al: It's, I mean, it's a star do you like, but it's a fun star.
Al: with some interesting differences, some of which I like, some of which I like in principle, but I actually don't like in how it ends up playing.
Al: But I guess we'll talk about those specifics in the future.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Possibly, there might possibly be an episode.
Al: Theoretically.
Al: hypothetically.
Codey: Theoretically, there are...
Al: Uh, yeah, yeah, so that's that's what we've been up to.
Codey: Oh, woo.
Al: All right, let's talk about some news 1st up.
Al: Maisie Village.
Al: I've announced that their LA Access is releasing on the 5th of August, which is less than a month away, just in case you... When I to feel that point where we're battling through the year, shall we say?
Codey: Oh horrifying.
Al: Uh, I can't figure out whether I want to play this one or not.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Um.
Codey: I'm in kind of in the same boat.
Codey: I think it's a really cute concept, and I'm sure someone will enjoy it, not me.
Al: I don't think, um, maybe I, um, I was going to say I don't think I'll play an early access, but...
Al: The tornado has a fee.
Codey: That is, that does like change everything.
Codey: No, I mean, I think it's a really cute concept.
Codey: I just, I don't, I'm, I have a mail shop to run.
Codey: I.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: We'll see.
Al: We'll see. We'll see.
Codey: Cool.
Al: Um, next up, Disney Dreamlight, uh, Disney Dreamlight Valley, Honeyglow Woods, Adventure Pack is out now.
Al: And they've released more information.
Codey: Cool.
Al: So this is the Winnie the Pooh one.
Codey: Well, so that's the Winnie the Pooh one that includes the apiary stuff.
Codey: So is it that, wait a minute, is it that Winnie the Pooh is?
Al: Yes, makes sense, to be fair.
Codey: Yeah, is it that Winnie the Pooh at all is only in the Honeyglow Woods?
Codey: Like they're, like, Eeyore is not in the main game.
Al: I believe you can, no, I believe you can take them to your main village.
Codey: But you have to pay for this first.
Codey: That's really lame.
Codey: I thought...
Al: Well, yeah, I mean that's just how this game works, right?
Codey: Well, I thought that the some of the characters would be in the main game.
Codey: Uh, and then you could take them, but then they'd be like, we need to go help poo or whatever.
Codey: That's it's fine.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: It's whatever.
Codey: Also, last episode.
Codey: No, 2 episodes go when you and Kev talked about this, and y'all were talking about how, like, um, that you hope that they don't tamp down ER too much.
Codey: Um, like his depression and stuff.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: This game is depressing.
Codey: Like, I don't.
Codey: I don't know if y'all remember when Johnny and I talked about how this game, like, there was a cutscene, like, that I, or something that I triggered that had a trigger warning on it, that was, like, it was basically, like, this next series of whatever is, has dark themes, like, are you ready for this right now or shooting, and there's like a, yeah, let's go, or, like, come back later thing.
Codey: Um, and you frequently are finding little scraps of paper all over the place that, that are written by a character who says things like, uh, the, the thorns are better.
Codey: I know that they hurt me, but they hurt me a lot less than people do.
Codey: Like it's like...
Al: Oh, oh.
Codey: Yeah, like Eeyore is not bad.
Codey: I think that he's going to be himself, which is going to be great.
Al: Yeah, that's fair.
Al: That's fair.
Al: Well, we'll see.
Codey: So.
Al: We'll see how that goes.
Al: I'm not.
Al: I'm not going back to the game
Codey: Yeah, no.
Codey: I mean, I will.
Codey: Um, I play it every now and then I'll I'll jump in.
Al: Do they?
Al: Yeah, do the expansions come on Game Pass or are they separate?
Codey: They do, but you have to pay for them.
Al: That's not the same, that's not being on Game Pass then.
Codey: So the game pass.
Codey: Correct.
Al: That's called not being on game.
Codey: So.
Codey: So the paid DLCs, or yeah, paid DLCs paid expansions, whatever, are not part of the, um, things that are, they're not included.
Al: They're not included.
Codey: But anytime they just add a character to the game or add a storyline to base game or whatever, that's all.
Al: Okay.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: Because those are just the free updates and stuff.
Codey: Yeah, but these paid things, uh, you have to pay separately.
Al: Do you get a discount on them?
Al: Because I know a lot of things on Game Pass where, because you can, you can buy games that are on Game Pass, if you're like, oh, this is leaving soon or I'm going to stop subscribing, you can buy it for a discount, do you get that with the expansions for Dreamlight Valley or not?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Um, I don't know, I haven't threatened to leave Game Pass, so.
Al: No, it's not.
Al: it's not that.
Al: It's literally just, see, if you go to a game on Game Pass and it lists as like play with Game Pass.
Al: It also lists it as you can buy this with a discount.
Al: Like just full stop.
Codey: Oh, I don't think so.
Al: And then if it leaves Game Pass, then you just get to keep it.
Al: But you get you pay less for it.
Codey: I don't think so.
Al: Let me have a look.
Codey: Um, because I'm trying to think, I know y'all said that this is 18 bucks or whatever, and I think that's about the costs that I was seeing on Game Pass.
Al: Right, okay.
Al: I mean, it's not a huge discount.
Al: Anyway, it doesn't matter, whatever.
Al: Cool.
Al: Next up, GoGoTown.
Al: They've been highlighting some things coming to the game for the one.
Al: 0 which comes out soon or is it out now?
Al: I lose track.
Codey: Soon question? question mark?
Al: Comes out soon.
Al: 16th of July.
Al: They have announced that one of the things that's coming to one.
Al: is treasure hunting.
Al: So that's artefacts, gems, fossils, fish, relics, bugs, and a museum to put them in.
Al: Not that this is a brand new concept.
Al: Many games have this, but it has come to this game as well.
Al: So if you're a lot, if you are a completionist and you love completing as much as possible, there's more to complete here.
Codey: Oh, yeah.
Al: Woo.
Codey: Um, yeah, I'm just looking at the image.
Al: Possibly two.
Codey: They're pretty, yeah.
Codey: I mean, they're, it's cute.
Codey: It looks cute, but it is.
Al: 88 relics, 16 artefacts, 13 fossils, 81 bugs, 28 gems, 76 fish, 12 traders, 29 key items, 21 vehicles, 107 townies, 116 recipes, 182 clothings, and 131 doodads.
Al: Is that just a miscellaneous section?
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I, yeah, I don't know.
Codey: Um...
Al: And it looks like there's more out of view as well on this collections thing.
Al: So it's so many collections.
Codey: Some of the bug stuff looks cute, uh, except I don't really understand what they mean by a forest woody.
Codey: Um, but the bugs themselves look cute and their little enclosure that you can put them in looks cute, but yep.
Codey: Something if you were planning to play this game slash on the fence about this game and you really like museums.
Codey: There you go.
Al: And our last piece of news for this week is the Stardew Valley crochet book has been announced.
Al: Cody, are you a crochet?
Codey: Mm, hmm.
Codey: I am.
Codey: I do crocheting, knitting, and cross stitching.
Al: I thought you would be.
Al: You just, you felt like a crochet.
Codey: Yeah, um, I mean, some of the things like the chicken that's on the front, chickens are not necessarily that hard to do.
Codey: I'm not gonna lie, but, um, it said that there's also a collection of Junomos, and the more challenging, a proposal worthy mermaid pendant.
Codey: So there are projects of every experience level.
Codey: I think like the thing to know if I want, I guess it says learn more at startervalleybooks.com.
Codey: Um, anytime I'm going to possibly buy a crochet book, I have to look and see what is in it.
Codey: Like, I'm not just gonna buy it.
Al: Mm.
Codey: I want to see what all of the crochet, because if there's not a pattern in there that I am interested in making.
Al: That's fair.
Codey: Um, then, yeah.
Codey: Adorn your farm, house shelf would.
Al: There's 25 patterns and it looks like they have a bunch of colour alternates that makes up to 45 in total because they've got the chicken one, but they can be different colours.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Well, you can make.
Codey: You can just choose a different colour yarn.
Codey: I mean, that's silly to say that that they are saying like 45 ways to make your own.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: I like, well, there's way more than 45 different colours of yarn.
Al: Right, but I think it's I think it's talking about like a, yes, you can use whatever colour you want, but there is no pink chicken in the game.
Codey: So...
Al: So it's like, yes, you can do that, but that wouldn't be a thing that's in the game.
Codey: Not with that.
Codey: You're right you're right.
Al: So it's like the 45 is things that are in the game.
Codey: Okay, here we go.
Codey: Junimos, slimes, parsnips, geodes, the legendary galaxy sword, and yes, even a pair of lucky purple shorts.
Al: Oh, no.
Codey: That's pretty funny.
Al: Are they life-size the shorts?
Al: Do we get to wear them?
Codey: Just put them on the floor.
Codey: Uh, they don't have any images or something.
Codey: This is just on their website.
Codey: So, um,
Al: The uh e-book is much cheaper.
Al: It is $14 for the e-book and $32 for the hard cover.
Codey: Again, I want to be able to look at it.
Codey: But prior to purchase.
Codey: But seems fine.
Al: Cool.
Al: I don't crochet, but.
Codey: Yeah, it really depends.
Codey: There are certain people who are really into interested in crocheting and just want to crochet similar, like, things, um, out.
Al: Yeah, like just as a mindless thing rather than like trying to stretch yourself in terms of skills makes sense.
Codey: Yeah, but I'm, I prefer like if, if someone, like one of my friends was like, hey, can you crochet me in blanket, be like, yeah, I can do that for you.
Codey: Um, or a scarf or whatever.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Like I've made a lot of that kind of stuff for people, but just on its own.
Codey: Like, I'm, I struggle to come up with something to make.
Codey: Um, so, but cool.
Codey: I'm sure people are going to be really excited.
Codey: Crochet and Stardew Valley are kind of a circle, like the people who like both of those things.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Mm, it's, it's, Not a complete circle.
Al: There's a lot of overlap, certainly.
Codey: There is a lot of overlap.
Al: Yeah, look, I don't like to judge a big by its cover, but when I went to the Stardew Valley concerts, looking around, there were a lot of crochets there.
Al: That's that's all I'm saying.
Codey: Probably crocheting while they were. That's probably where they got the idea.
Codey: Like as the symphony's playing.
Codey: They're all like looking out on the and they're like, hmm.
Codey: And now people are gonna turn and go to those concerts and see how many, how many, um, crochet, how many chickens they can pump out in the concert.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Oh, no.
Al: Ah, that would be brilliant if they did that as an official thing, like see who can get a chicken done in time.
Al: Um, I actually think in terms of the audience, the crochet book makes more sense than the cooking book.
Al: Obviously, the cooking book makes more sense thematically because of Stardew Valley, but if you're purely thinking about like, yeah, the overlap of people who do things, suspect crocheting is probably bigger than cooking.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yep, for sure.
Codey: Why don't, why can you not crochet in games?
Codey: I can't think of a game where I can't think of, I mean, so I play a cross stitch game, but like I'm thinking like as, you know, you can fish, you can do this.
Al: There must be a crocheting game.
Codey: You can like come and chop wood or something, but I feel like there's not a big game that has where your character can be like, mm, I'm going to go crochet or or knit or whatever.
Al: You might actually be there, there.
Al: Yeah, I don't think there is.
Codey: That is a gap.
Al: So there's there's only one game I can find that is related to crocheting, and it's a visual novel, which doesn't really feel like it's going to have any gameplay related to the crocheting.
Al: And then we've also got like, there's a game called Unravel, which is about unravelling characters made of yarn.
Al: Again, it's not about actually crocheting.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: There's a knitting game, knitting craft, but that's knitting, not crocheting.
Codey: I mean, but even that, that is cool.
Codey: I mean, that sounds I'm going to have to look at that.
Codey: But, like, I'm imagining a mini game where you have to do certain combinations of like button presses or whatever to be able to make sure that you have, like, good certain rows or whatever and your skill level's low at the beginning, but as you get better, um, your, or as you, like, it's hard to hit the buttons because they're all over the place, but as you get better and as you grow, as you level.
Codey: Um, because as more skilled you get, the easier it is to just like mindlessly do it.
Codey: Um, And then like as your level goes up, you unlock new patterns or people might come up to you and be like, oh, I love that sweater you made.
Codey: Can you make me one in brown?
Codey: Like there's a lot of potential there, for sure.
Codey: That could be an entire game.
Al: Here's a question for you.
Al: Why why is this this game, this crochet cavalcade?
Al: Why is steam age gating it for me?
Codey: What?
Codey: Crochet cavalcade.
Al: It's...
Codey: Oh, that looks like a...
Al: Is this not a crocheting game?
Al: I don't know why for so like it says I need to verify my age.
Codey: It's an adult, it's an adult visual series.
Codey: And do you not see that the video is just her breathing?
Al: No, I can't, it's not letting me view it at all for some reason.
Codey: Oh, yeah, no, there's.
Al: It's but it's the UK, the UK law means that you can't see adult content without proving your age, but the weird thing is, I'm pretty sure I've already done this on steam because, you know, I did have that other game that I'm not going to talk about specifically on the podcast because we are family friendly.
Codey: It is.
Al: Uh
Codey: It is very adults.
Codey: There are the women are well endowed in the upper torso department.
Codey: Um, not, not a, not a game for uh,
Al: Oh, oh, here we go.
Al: Finally done it.
Al: I don't know why I needed to verify my age again when I'd already done that.
Codey: Oh, there.
Al: Okay, yeah.
Al: Fair enough.
Codey: Oops, Sims 4 added knitting.
Codey: That's cool.
Al: Is this actually about crocheting then?
Codey: Nifty.
Codey: don't think so.
Codey: I guess the Sims has done this. Like, but I feel like this could be an entire game that people would play rather than a $10
Al: Oh my, okay.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Sorry, I'm just distracted by this not crocheting game.
Al: Why is it called crochet?
Al: Why is crocheting the name?
Al: It has mixed reviews.
Al: All right.
Al: Let's move on.
Al: Someone make a crocheting game for Cody, please and thank you.
Codey: Yep.
Al: All right, let's talk about Game Pass.
Al: So, I have a long list of games that I've looked at what is currently available.
Al: I look through every single game that's currently available on Game Pass.
Al: and made a list of all the ones that are related to this podcast.
Al: That's how dedicated I am to this podcast episode.
Al: It wasn't actually that much where I could take like 20 minutes.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: But 1st up, I want to talk about Game Pass as a whole, because like some people will be hearing this and they're like, I've not actually, I've never tried Game Pass what's actually like, um, and I mean, obviously the, the, the basic description is there is a subscription service for games.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Cody, you've had it for a while now, a couple years, I guess.
Al: Why do you
Codey: Yeah.
Al: why do you stay subscribed to it?
Codey: So I enjoy being able to play a variety of games for a low amount.
Codey: So I think I have like the $10 plan or something, which I will mention does not give you everything.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: So there are some of these games that are beyond that are part of the like upper level, um, subscription.
Al: Yeah, there's also different subscriptions depending on whether you're doing it on PC or Xbox or both, just to be complicated.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Yeah, of course.
Codey: Um, and so I really enjoy it because it allows me to play these games without actually having to purchase them because I might not know if I want to play a game.
Codey: I mean, like there's a Bluey game on there and I tried it and was like, oh, this is a kid's game because of course it is. Um, but, you know, you can, you can play games that you might not otherwise play because they have a cost, a financial cost.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, I played super liminal on this, which is a game that people have been recommending to me, which plays with like forced perspective and stuff and it's like a puzzle adventure mystery game thingy.
Codey: Um, there, and some other games that I would never have picked up that I actually have enjoyed quite a bit.
Codey: Uh, like TCG card player simulator is there, um, house flipper, uh, power wash simulator.
Codey: Like a bunch of these things are, are part of Game Pass and that, that is how I was, um, introduced, not introduced to them, but how I was, uh, given access to them.
Codey: And I was able to then play them.
Codey: Um, it does rotate fairly regularly as well.
Al: Hmm.
Codey: I don't know if there's like a certain schedule or something, but I feel like whenever I'm like, mm, what other games are there?
Codey: There's usually a couple other, like some other options.
Codey: They also frequently purchase the rights to, uh, like some franchises.
Codey: So for a while, like all of the Assassin's Creed games were on it, or all of Gears of War or stuff like that.
Codey: So there are certain games that if you missed it, like certain franchises, I just, I didn't play Gears of War, for example, um, or I did, and I didn't finish Assassin's Creed.
Codey: So this is an opportunity for me to do that if I wanted to because they're just right there for $10 a month.
Codey: Um, So that's why I keep it.
Codey: I think if I didn't ever use it for like a few months, like a month or so, I'd probably get rid of it because it's not.
Codey: I'm not just going to sit around waiting because I think they also have like a list of what games are on it at any given time, but they...
Al: Yeah.
Al: They do, they do.
Al: I I, that's where I got this from.
Al: There's literally on the website.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: There's a list of every single game and they've got like filters for genre and they even have on that list.
Al: They have integration with how long to beat, so you can like sort it by like the shortest games, which I found quite nice.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yeah, so it's, it, it just provides kind of, so I've, I've been trying to do this with um, books as well, where instead of going to a bookstop bookstore in which I am just going to go straight to the section I want in the section I like.
Codey: I might go to one of those little libraries.
Codey: Um, on a corner or something and just be like, I'm gonna pick a book out of this and give it a shot.
Codey: Um, and it makes you step out of your your bubble and experience something that you might not like, but it's, you, you are trying new things.
Codey: You're not stuck in your game, your own life play loop.
Codey: Um, So I really enjoy that.
Codey: Like, I like kind of just every now and then being like, do I like, uh, killing aliens in a, this crazy shooter.
Codey: I don't like this game in particular, so I'm going to put it back.
Al: Yeah, I guess the thing is that like games are expensive. And not all games have demos. And not all demos for games are actually a good reflection of the game in and of itself, right?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: So the, I guess the beauty of game passes that you don't need demos, you can just say, I'm just going to try this game.
Al: And then you don't have to worry about how much it costs.
Al: You don't have to worry about that, any of that.
Al: Obviously, Game Pass does have the same negatives as every subscription service.
Al: It is a recurring cost that if you have to decide to stop being, which is never great, some people are really bad at actually cancelling things.
Al: So that is something to bear in mind.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And obviously, as we've mentioned, things come off regularly.
Al: Um, and they do have uh, like uh, things that are coming off soon list, so you can look at that and decide.
Al: But as with all these things, I think it depends on what sort of games.
Al: So, like, for example, one of the games that's on there is Stardew Valley.
Al: I actually don't think unless you are, unless you have the subscription to Game Pass and you're going to have it no matter what, I actually don't think that people should play Starjew Valley on Game Pass because it is one of these games that you can get sucked into for 100s of hours and then you're just regularly paying money for one game that you could have just bought outright.
Al: So it's always a difficult thing.
Al: Um, to decide, but there is, there is quite a lot on it.
Al: When I, you know, I've had about 3 months and I feel like I've definitely got my money, money's worth from that.
Al: I've played quite a few games to completion that I wouldn't have necessarily bought.
Al: And so that's nice and there's a few that I've tried and gone, no, this definitely isn't for me, which is again something that is hard to do without paying for things.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: So it's definitely, I think, handy for certain types of people.
Al: I suspect that's the thing is like it depends on who you are and what sort of.
Al: If you liked trying lots of different games.
Al: It's probably good for you. If you like playing the same games over and over again.
Al: It's probably very bad for you.
Al: You should probably just buy your games.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: Um, and you just, you do just, as with all these things.
Al: I mean, this is the problem with digital games in general, but you just, you never know when theoretically you might not have access to stuff that you have paid money for.
Codey: Yep, I think I do think though, like if you were to play something on Game Pass for a while and then it were to go off of Game Pass, if you, your save is still there.
Codey: So I think if you bought the game, you would be able to continue where you had left off because it will still have your cloud save of
Al: Assuming, yeah, assuming that you buy it through Microsoft, right?
Al: You couldn't be buying it through steam that way to get, that would, that would be different, which is a thing because like then you're not being able to play those games on a steam deck, for example.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I mean, this is the biggest thing why I've not kind of regularly gone into game passes because you are basically tied to Microsoft stuff, right?
Al: So, um, you can do you can access it on more than just Windows, but for a lot of it, it's not as good.
Al: So for example, on a steam deck, you're having to run the cloud games, you can't download the games and play them locally.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I don't know how it works on Mac.
Al: Have you have you got an app that lets you download games on the Mac or is it, again, just cloud gaming?
Codey: I have never used Game Pass on my Mac.
Codey: I legit have not even considered that as an option.
Al: Yeah, I suspect it's the same.
Codey: Um,
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I think it's geared towards people that either have the Xbox and you could just go to the Game Pass tab. It's like one of the 1st tabs on when you start up your Xbox or for people who have a PC and are already playing like people don't have Max as their as a gaming computer.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: It's kind of more of a.
Al: Well, yeah, I mean, you say that, like I, if I'm playing a game that I have to play on not a handheld device because it's like mouse and keyboard, I'm playing it on a Mac, right?
Al: Like it is a thing that some people do.
Al: Um, and I'm not saying that that, like, I guess it's just, it is just another one of these things to bear in mind that it does limit you on what you can do, right?
Al: Like if I buy a game on steam.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Most games I buy on Steam now, not all.
Al: Most games will work on a PC, will work on a steam deck, and a large number of them will work on Mac.
Al: Not all.
Al: But that is a thing.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Whereas if you want to go on Game Pass, if you have a Mac, good luck, right?
Al: Like it's not like it depends on the game, it's like, it depends on whether you like cloud gaming or not, right?
Al: Um, and cloud gaming is fine, but I personally, if I'm paying a subscription to play games every month,
Al: I don't really want to be relying on cloud gaming for that.
Al: Because that's actually how I tried.
Al: I got a free trial to Game Pass, when Disney Dreamlight Valley came out first, and tried out Disney Dreamlight Valley on it, on my steam deck, and boy, it was terrible because you were doing it over cloud gaming.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: It was not, it was not fun.
Al: It was really really bad.
Al: And obviously it massively depends on your internet speed and stuff like that, that and how powerful your computer is and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Al: It can be better, but I was just personally not enjoying that at all.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And so that's why I never got back to it.
Al: But now that I have the Asis ROG Xbox LIX, which does have Windows on it, and I also have Steam OS on it as well, it means that I can do Game Pass just by switching over to the Windows side of that.
Al: And it's fine.
Al: It does the job.
Al: There's things that I dislike about it.
Al: I've talked about that in a previous episode.
Al: I think SteamOS is overall the better operating system still, but you can't get the game best stuff on it.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: So, that is what it is.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: If I'm playing a steam game, I'll reboot into steam or S because it's just so much better, if I'm playing something on Game Pass, I will reboot into Windows and it does the job.
Al: Um,
Codey: Yeah, I think I think there's also with cloud gaming, you're throttled by how many people are on it at a given time, right?
Codey: Or at least that's my understanding is like, because there have been times where like as I'm starting up cloud gaming.
Al: Um, I, I don't,
Al: Not really.
Codey: It's like, uh, there's a lot of traffic today or something like that.
Codey: Like I have gotten those types of notifications before, I think.
Al: Right, okay.
Codey: Um,
Al: I think only in like exceptional circumstances, I would think, right?
Al: Because we're talking about Microsoft.
Al: They are one of the biggest tech companies in the world.
Al: They have all of the computing power just now.
Al: But I mean, maybe they're using it all for AI just now rather than cloud gaming.
Al: Yeah, I do. It's definitely something that you do have to bear in mind, but that's something you have to bear in mind with any internet related thing, right?
Al: Like things can slow down if there's lots of people on it.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: It's the worst.
Al: All right.
Al: Let's talk about some games on that then.
Al: So I have a few different sections of games that I think it might be worth talking about.
Al: The 1st section I've entitled The Big Ones.
Al: So we have Spirit Fader, obviously, a big one.
Al: If you are on Game Pass and you have not played Spirit Fair.
Al: Go play this game.
Codey: What are you doing?
Codey: What are you doing listening to us?
Codey: Go get go place for your fair.
Al: Go place, bit of air.
Al: Um, we've also got Stardio Valley.
Al: As I said, I don't, I think, I think if you're on Game Pass, fine. Play it, if you want to play Stardew Valley, I don't think you should get Game Pass to play Stardew Valley because Stardew Valley is so cheap.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Yeah, just buy it.
Al: Like it's like one month of Game Pass.
Al: But I mean, it's one of these things where it might be worth if you want to try, if you have Game Pass, you want to try it out, or if you get a free trial for Game Pass is a good way to try out if you might like Stardew Valley.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: But yeah, I'm not
Al: sure who the person is that's ploughing 100s of hours into Stardew Valley on Game Pass.
Al: Because if you're doing that as well,
Al: Have you got time to play the other games that are on Game Pass or are you just infinitely paying for Stardew Valley on its own?
Al: I'm fascinated by that situation.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: On the same level is Minecraft.
Al: Like, you should probably just be buying Minecraft.
Codey: Hey, all people, there are probably some people out there who have heard about this Minecraft thing, and they see it on Game Pass, and they're like, sure, I'll give it a spin.
Al: I, I, I think we were talking about Venn diagrams being a circle.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I think people who have Game Pass and people who have played Minecraft.
Al: Like the people who are on Game Pass is entirely contained within the people who have played Minecraft.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Obviously, the people who build Minecraft is much bigger than that.
Al: But yeah, I think there are very, very few people who have not played Minecraft and somehow have a game pass subscription.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I mean, maybe they're kids.
Codey: That's another benefit too, is having it on your having Game Pass, like on your Xbox or something can allow anyone to use it.
Al: Sure.
Al: That's true.
Codey: Um, Yeah.
Al: That's very true.
Al: Then we have Disney Dream Night Valley, obviously, big one.
Codey: Which is blessed because I do enjoy that game.
Al: Um as...
Codey: I've put a lot of hours into it and I would not pay for it.
Al: Yeah, it certainly takes a bit of the sting out of the fact that it's not free to play like they said it was going to be.
Al: And the last on this list is Terraria, just a big game.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: I actually played Terraria on Game Pass because I was like, let me see if I like it.
Al: Turns out, not really.
Codey: Oh, no.
Codey: Um, it's kind of a, yeah.
Codey: I'm trying to remember how I played it before.
Codey: Maybe Steam, but yeah, not something that I have been waiting into this moment to play.
Al: Right.
Codey: But cool that it's there.
Al: Yeah, I, again, it's, I think it's just one of these things that's worth worth looking into if you, if you have it.
Al: And then next, I have a list of games that are games that we've talked about on the podcast.
Al: This is not necessarily individual recommendations.
Al: Uh, you'll understand why, but uh, these, if you have Game Pass and you are interested in any of these games because we've talked about them, then they exist.
Al: 1st up being a little rocket lab, go play this game is excellent.
Al: I wouldn't have played this game, I don't think, if I didn't have Game Pass.
Al: It was one of the 1st things I was like, oh, that's a game I've heard of.
Al: It looked interesting.
Al: Let me try it.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And turned out to be one of my favourite games of the year.
Codey: There you go.
Codey: That's Game Pass did its job right there.
Al: Yeah, absolutely.
Codey: That's that's the whole point, even if, uh, you get 9 games that are not your cup of tea.
Al: That's the beauty.
Al: Next up, Minami Lane.
Al: similarly, I tried this one.
Al: Not big fan, but I can see people who would be and I'm glad that I didn't have to pay it to find out that I didn't like it.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Yeah, everything, as you keep going, uh, like, I saw it on Game Pass and knew that y'all had already talked about it and that I think listening to those episodes, I was not, uh, intrigued.
Codey: Um, so I was like, oh, cool, for people that might be interested in those games, not me.
Codey: So.
Al: Yeah, yeah, fair, fair.
Al: Star Sand Island.
Al: I didn't play this on Game Pass because I bought it when it came out and that was a couple months before I got Game Pass, but I enjoyed what I played of that game.
Al: I might get back into that at some point, but it's, again, another one of those ones that is worth trying out to see whether you would like it or not.
Codey: Yeah, true.
Al: Bistro last week's episode, mixed feelings on this game.
Codey: So this is the one I, I,
Codey: Yeah, I saw this and I was like, oh, wait a minute.
Codey: Like I might actually play that, uh, from listening to last week's episode.
Al: I think you should.
Al: I think if you if you're intrigued by it based on the episode, then you absolutely...
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yeah, I think that, um, I'm trying to remember exactly what it was.
Codey: It's so funny because this is a bit of an aside, but as I was listening to that episode, I was also, um, organising the 2nd map in that, um, supermarket game. And so when I try and remember what you guys were saying, all I can remember is that I was picking up cookies and putting them away.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: But I remember like a certain moment being like, oh, that's cool. Or like, oh, oh, one thing that you guys said, like, and I don't know if you talked about it more and I just like missed or something, but at one point you were just like, oh yeah, this guy's still in chains and I was like, oh.
Codey: What?
Al: Yeah, that we didn't want to talk too much about the story, right?
Al: Because I think if you're intrigued by the story, then you want to, you want to hear about the story.
Al: But yeah, no, there's, yeah, a guy gets chained up at one point.
Codey: So that is something that I, that and just like the conversation you guys had in general, I will definitely give this a shot, uh, especially because it's on Game Pass and I have of that.
Al: No, it's the beauty of Game Pass.
Al: I think the thing is that with a game like Bistro, I think when you hear the description of how some of that game works, you either go, oh, I am never touching that.
Al: I'm not going anywhere near that.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: That sounds horrific.
Al: Or you go, that is fascinating and I want to know how I feel about that and you won't fully know until you try it.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: If I had heard someone describe this game to me properly, the way it does, I would have never touched it because I know that that just isn't for me.
Codey: It may.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: But I can absolutely see someone going, that sounds weird and I like weird and different and so let me try it and see what I think.
Codey: Listening to you guys talk about some of the mechanics, um, I was thinking like, is this how people here, is this when people 1st encounter Pokemon, is this when they start thinking about type advantages and same type attack bonus and, oh, but this one, like, it's like all of that complexity that is now inherent, like we just understand it.
Al: Yeah, absolutely.
Codey: You don't even have to explain to me, like, that you're basically trying to explain something like that that's in a different system.
Al: Yep.
Al: Yeah, yeah, definitely.
Codey: Um, And so I was listening and I'm like, I am not following this, but I still, I will probably give the game a shot at some point.
Codey: Um, but very happy to see it's on.
Al: I reckon people listen to that the same way they listen to the, um, the farmer was replaced episode and they're like,
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Good for you.
Codey: You're saying words.
Al: This is the problem with podcasting as a medium is there's just some things you just can't get across properly.
Codey: I think part of it, though, was how passionate y'all were about it, like, and how it's, it was clear that you guys were really interested in the concept or like the, how things work, and it intrigued you, and it, like, got you going, you know?
Codey: So that is enough. To hear that in your voice, even if I can't understand the concept.
Codey: This is again part of the Afantasia issue.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Um, like, in order for me to really understand while I'm listening to something like that, I would have to have a notebook and be writing things down and like drawing arrows between things and it's just, yeah, but.
Al: I do wonder whether sometimes when we're talking about a game, people, if anybody actually like pulls up the steam page and just looks at screenshots as we're talking about things.
Codey: Yeah, I've, I've done, like there have been times when I'm listening that I have, I like pause whatever I'm doing to either comment to one of y'all or to like be like, what are they talking about?
Codey: Um, and I'm sure people will do that on some of the bug month episodes. They're like, wait, what is that that she's explaining?
Al: Yeah.
Al: Oh, probably.
Codey: So, podcasting can also include a visual component for sure.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: And that's and that's okay.
Codey: Sometimes all you can say is just try it or just look at it or whatever.
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: This is why I actually am very strongly like podcasts should be recorded as a podcast, not as a video podcast because I think it's too easy to fall into the visual aspect of things.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And if you have something visual, you'll just, you'll explain less audibly and and that just makes everything worse.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And I don't think everything can be explained well audibly, but if you're, if it's hard to explain audibly, and you have a visual aspect, you're probably going to fail, you know?
Codey: Yeah, yep.
Codey: You limit your mind.
Al: And then we have Farming Simulator 25.
Al: So if you've ever been interested in a farming simulator, that's your way to find out you don't like it.
Codey: Yep.
Al: Overthrown as well.
Al: If you've ever been intrigued by that.
Al: It's obviously an intriguing game when you hear how it is explained with its narrator running and weird physics and stuff.
Al: And I,
Codey: Yeah, and they, there's like a new update as well.
Codey: to that, that, like on the, um,
Al: Oh, yeah.
Al: Yes.
Codey: Yeah, so, period, I guess.
Al: Then a couple of other games, Dredge, we talked about that in fishing month.
Al: Was that a couple years ago?
Al: Was that 2 years ago?
Codey: Um, yeah, I don't, I don't, I think it was.
Codey: Yeah, it was fishing, fishing.
Al: Um, outbound, obviously we talked about a couple of weeks ago as well.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: And then technically this one's in this category because we have recorded the episode, but we've not released it yet.
Codey: That's how I played it.
Al: And that's Kabuto part, because it's part of Bug Month.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: So you'll hear that in 2 weeks, I think.
Codey: An amount of time.
Al: More than one week, fewer than five.
Al: No, I think it's 2 weeks.
Al: Yeah.
Al: That episode comes out 2 weeks after this.
Al: And again, that was, I mean, you had mentioned that, I think, as one that we would probably do for a bug month.
Al: I hadn't been planning on playing it, and then I saw it was on Game Pass, and I was like, well, I guess I'm doing that episode then.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: And that turned out well.
Codey: Um, it's that's whenever we're talking about certain games that we might want to cover on the podcast, I always check Game Pass.
Codey: Like, is it there?
Codey: Oh, it's not.
Al: Yeah, with so many it's just they're not.
Codey: Sad noises.
Al: And then there's a number of other games as well, uh, that are related, but we've not specifically covered on the podcast other than just like we talked about some of these.
Al: Um, like just I've realised that we've talked about them as in like they exist rather than covering them in detail.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: We have not had an episode in which they are the central focus of the episode.
Al: That was a very confusing sentence.
Al: Yes, and those would be solar punk, which is only just out.
Al: RV there yet? Uh, which I, brand new, I think, to Game Pass.
Codey: Yeah, so this just either came out or just was added to Game Pass and I want to play it and I think that you can't play it by yourself.
Codey: So I think we should play this because it's a co-op.
Al: Oh.
Al: Oh, no.
Codey: Like, I think that you drive, like, one of you has to drive the RV and the other person has to be like, nope, to the left.
Al: Ah.
Codey: No, like, because you have to like drive across a bridge or whatever.
Codey: Like, I think it has to be co-op.
Al: Uh, I'm not promising to play any co-op.
Codey: But I still, I still want to play.
Al: We can have a conversation about that off the podcast.
Al: Organising time to play games is so much more complicated than organising time to record a podcast.
Al: Then we've got Col of the Wild, the angler, obviously a fishing game.
Al: We've got Moonlighter and also Moonlighter 2.
Al: I haven't played either of those, but I've always been intrigued by them.
Al: We have Zoo Tycoon.
Al: I bet you can guess what that game is.
Al: And then we have plants versus zombies battle for Naberville.
Codey: Nope.
Al: I'm guessing that's the most recent plant versus well.
Codey: I'm not entirely sure.
Codey: I, that, the, that series did not snag me the way that other people were enraptured by it.
Al: Yeah.
Al: It's not really cottage core.
Al: I'm only talking about it because it's one of those games where it feels fun to talk about as a theme rather than genre wise.
Codey: It fits.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: It fits into the vibe.
Al: Tiny bookshop, which is obviously about running a tiny bookshop.
Codey: Yeah, so I've been playing that actually.
Codey: And I played that as well.
Al: Oh nice.
Codey: Um, because it's on Game Pass.
Codey: It's really cute.
Codey: Um, it has real books in it with like real, and so someone might come and be like, I was, I really enjoyed this other book and I want to read a book that's similar to it but has this other thing that's slightly different.
Codey: And you have to try and match a book that is in your bookshop that day to the person's request.
Codey: It's very cute.
Al: Oh no.
Codey: Um,
Al: So it requires real knowledge of real wigs.
Codey: No, no, no.
Codey: So the real, the books themselves, like, they're they're colour coded by category or genre.
Codey: And then, so like there might be a crime book or sorry, a horror book and it's it, right?
Al: Ah, okay.
Codey: And then when you are holding that book or looking at that book in particular, it will have the name.
Codey: It will have, um, Stephen King, it will have how many pages it is.
Codey: It will have when it was produced.
Codey: Um, and kind of a, and then it will have like a synopsis of it.
Codey: So you, even if you don't know, certain books, you can read the synopsis.
Codey: And sometimes people are like, I want to read something that's old or I want to read something that's really short.
Codey: And so it's just all information.
Codey: But I like that it's real books because some of the science fiction books, I'm like, hey, this was a great book.
Codey: I'm going to try and push this book on everyone.
Codey: And there's multiple places you can set up your little bookshop trailer thing.
Al: Mm-hmm. Fair enough.
Codey: Um, and there's there is a story to it as well.
Codey: It's very cute.
Codey: So possibly something we could cover if anyone else wants to play it or listen to me, yeah, about it.
Al: Fair enough.
Al: Then we have one lonely outpost, which is the Mars-based star, do you like?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I actually build this up to play because I was like, oh, this is one of these games that I feel like I should play at some point.
Al: I didn't get very far because I'm just not
Al: I'm not a fan of the the UI.
Al: Like everything about how the controls look just feels not great to me and that really put me off.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Mm.
Al: You know how sometimes people, when they try Stardew, and they're like, I just don't like the graphics.
Al: It's like that.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yes.
Al: And I can't, it's not like there's anything specific about it that I could tell you.
Al: I think this is bad or I think this could be better.
Al: It's just the UI itself.
Al: All of the, like, the toolbar and the, all of this, all of the things around that, not the graphics of the game, like the characters and the world and stuff, those were fine.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: It was everything around that that just jarred with me and I can't really explain why.
Codey: There's just certain graphical components or variations that appeal to certain people.
Codey: I think I'm really this what Stardew has and the cell shading or whatever, whatever it is, like the pixel art stuff, I am over it.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: Like I, if there's a game, there, they could make a game that is pinning insects and I probably would not play it because I, I'm over that art style.
Al: Mm-hmm.
Al: Wow.
Codey: Um,
Codey: And so, yeah.
Codey: I don't, I don't know.
Al: Interesting.
Codey: I get it.
Al: And then finally, the Sims 3.
Al: Because that's cottage core, right?
Codey: Is it?
Codey: I could I could go on about the Sims if we want to have some Sims episodes.
Al: I am decreeing it as cottage core.
Codey: I've been playing them for so long.
Codey: Okay, well, we should totally do some Sims episodes.
Al: Yeah, it's an interesting one.
Al: I think I feel, I mean, probably, yeah.
Al: I never really got big into three.
Al: Um, I played a lot of one and then like a stupid amount of two, 2 was the big one.
Codey: Me too.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Like that was just, that was the game I played for like 3 years of my life that I didn't play in, anything else in that time period and I bought far too many expansion packs, um, but never really got into three.
Al: So I don't think I'd have anything up to date to talk about with that game.
Al: But, um, I think the same, I feel the same about the Sims as I do about uh, Stardew and um, Minecraft, like, I, you, I don't think this includes any of the expansions.
Al: It's just the base game.
Al: And so I don't think you're getting any advantage from it being on a subscription.
Al: I think if it included all the DLC, all the expansions, right?
Codey: Yeah.
Al: Because the Sims 3 has about what is, it's like a $1000 worth of expansions it has now if you were to buy them all, it's mad, how many they have.
Al: But you don't get any of those.
Al: And it's another game where you're just, the idea of it is to play 100s of hours of it.
Al: And so therefore just buy the game.
Al: Especially as I'm pretty sure the Sims 3 was free on Epic one week.
Codey: Yeah, so.
Al: Like, you know?
Codey: The downloadable content, uh, for, oh, I'm looking at Sims 4, but you know, same, same.
Codey: The downloadable content, there are 113 things that you can download.
Codey: Um, And they're all like $7, $7, $5, $40, like $5.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: So it's, it's just, it, it is much that, um, if you wanted to try and have, like, collect it all.
Codey: I mean, there are certain things like I don't really care about makeup or, oh, there's a garden to table kit.
Codey: But, um, yeah, I think those would be beneficial to have a subscription service too.
Codey: As long as there's.
Al: Yeah, so I just had a look.
Al: The only things that are included in the Sims 3 on Game Pass are the base game, the late night expansion pack, and the high-end loft stuff pack.
Al: That's it.
Al: 2 of the expansion bags.
Codey: Lame.
Codey: Gotta have the.
Al: And one of which one of them is only a stuff pack.
Codey: Got to have cats and dogs.
Al: It's not even our features back.
Al: It's just stuff.
Codey: Got to have those cats and dogs, man.
Al: Yeah, that's the, you know, that's the one that I think Sims 2 was legitimate in not living pets in the beginning and then obviously came out with Unleashed.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: I think from Sims 3 they should have had pets in the base game from, you know.
Codey: It was 20 bucks.
Codey: Yeah, Sims 3, every single thing is 20 bucks.
Al: Stupid.
Codey: Um, like all of this, all of the DLC playable DLC things.
Codey: Um, yeah, the pet.
Codey: I mean, the pet, they got me.
Codey: I paid 20 bucks to get the pets.
Codey: Um, I don't know how much else I'll pay.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: But.
Al: You can currently buy all of the Sims, everything for Sims 3, on Steam, for £170.
Al: So that's what, the $200?
Al: Like the base game is not listed here.
Codey: I think it's usually still also like, it might be 40.
Al: Yeah, but it goes on sale so much.
Codey: Oh, nope, it's 20.
Codey: By the Sims 3, it's $20 and then everything else is 20.
Al: You, it's 20, right, okay.
Al: Yeah, that's, yeah.
Codey: Okay, but like, I'm not seeing the sale that you're saying.
Codey: Oh, check out the entire Sims collection on...
Al: It's a big bundle.
Al: Yeah there you go.
Al: Also, Sims 4 is free to play.
Codey: Yes, I do have that
Codey: See, the issue with all of these, uh, is that they are...
Al: Yes, yes, of course, of course.
Al: Big.
Codey: But I am going to try and actually have my PC.
Al: Big thing.
Al: I'm certainly never going to try and play any of these with a controller.
Codey: No.
Codey: Or on the, um.
Codey: The whatchamacallit. Game Pass.
Codey: No, uh, steam deck.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Yeah, no, don't don't don't don't buy Game Pass for the Sims.
Al: Sims 4 isn't even on it.
Al: Which I guess is because it's free to play, but yeah, there's so much.
Al: Anyway.
Al: All right.
Al: This is not Sims podcast.
Al: That's Game Pass.
Al: I think what I will probably do going forwards is can of once a year or something might pay for a month and then play a bunch of games or test out a bunch of games.
Al: I don't think it's something that I will have an ongoing subscription like you do, just because I don't think that it's something that I will feel the need to have all the time, but it's the sort of thing I could see.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Al: It's like when people are like, oh, I get Netflix for one month a year and binge all of the stuff they've released this year.
Al: I think I probably will do the same thing.
Al: It's harder to do for games, but at least I can like try out a bunch of games, you know, spend a month trying out a bunch of games and playing a bunch of shorter games and get my money's worth that way. I could see myself doing that.
Codey: Yeah.
Al: All right, anything else to say?
Codey: No, sorry, I'm I've got lost in the Sims 3 comments section.
Al: We have lost Cody to the Sims.
Codey: Sorry.
Al: All right.
Al: Thank you, Cody, for joining me on this podcast episode.
Al: Is there anything you'd like to share with the audience other than don't buy Game Pass for the Sims?
Codey: Um, or Stardew Valley.
Al: Well, yeah, I mean, there's a different, it's a different thing, but like, yeah, probably not.
Codey: It is worth it.
Codey: Also, depending on which game, if there is one of these games that we mentioned, you're like, oh, I've been interested in trying that.
Codey: See which level it's on.
Codey: So I again have the $10 level.
Al: Yeah.
Codey: There's a $15 or $16 level and then there's like a $23 level.
Codey: And depending on like certain games are available on certain ones, and you can check that out.
Codey: Uh, check out which games are on which on the Xbox uh, Game Pass.
Al: Yeah.
Al: I will share the link that I use for checking what games are on Game Pass, um, because it shows you the different levels as well.
Al: So if you're interested, follow that link in the show.
Al: what is available before you do anything?
Codey: Yep, um, yeah, no, other than that, nothing.
Codey: What about you, Al?
Al: Cool, you can find.
Codey: Anything? Yep.
Al: You can find the podcast on Tumblr and on Blue Sky at THS Pod.
Al: You can send us feedback from our website, harvestseason. club.
Al: Tell us if you have Game Pass, and if so, what's the game that you wouldn't have bought that you enjoyed the most?
Al: So the game you've enjoyed the most that you wouldn't have bought another way and you only played because it's on Game Pass.
Al: Tell us that.
Al: Also on our website, you can find links to everything to do with the podcast, including a link to our Patreon, patreon.com slash THS pod, where you can get access to our Slack, and you can see a silly picture of us withholding our mics.
Al: Even if that's not how Cody ended up recording most of the podcast because that's a whole other problem, even though we started that way.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: Yeah, that, that cable, cable issues, man, technical difficulties abound.
Al: You also get access to our bonus episodes of the podcast.
Al: We'll have more.
Al: It's probably going to be a bit quiet for the summer because summer's already busy, but we'll get more at it after I'm back home.
Codey: Mm-hmm
Al: Oh yeah, I think that's everything.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: And Thank you for having me.
Al: Thank you again, Cody, for joining me.
Al: Thank you listeners for listening, and until next time, have a good harvest.
Codey: Have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The harvest season is created by Al McKinley with support from our patrons, including our pro farmers, Kevin Stewart and Elisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Mike the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed in this episode.
Al: Uh, let's throw up time dot is.
Codey: Can we snap?
Codey: How are we going to clap when we're holding microphones?
Al: Oh yeah, snapping's fine.
Codey: Okay.
Al: Yeah, that yeah, that'll be fine.
Al: Right.
Al: Okay.
Al: We'll do it on 20.
Al: Oh.
Codey: Or sneeze.
Codey: I mean, I could, I didn't want to do that, but, um, yeah.
Al: I was, I felt it coming in.
Al: I was like, can I hold it off long enough and I held it off to the exact 2nd.
Al: So there we go.
Al: Look, it works.
Al: It works.
Codey: Mhm, mhm.
Al: It's not something I can do on demand normally, but it still shows the beacon the audio.